---
toc: true
layout: post
description: Vocabulary
title: Vocabulary
categories: [markdown, csp]
---
# Vocabulary
algorithm- finite set of instructions that accomplish a specific task, composed of sequencing, selection, and iteration.
selection- a section of code is run only if a condition is met.
iteration- repeating steps or instructions over and over again
sequencing- outline or set of steps that we do and follow in order that they are given
variable- you can store an actual value, the value of a variable in another variable, the result of an operation, or result of a procedural call
String: a sequence of characters
Len: finds the number of characters in a string (length)
String concatenation: combines two or more strings into one (combines words/letters)
Substring: a part of a existing string
Iteration - Repetition of a Process

For Loop - FOR LOOP repeats a function for a set number of times; I is the number of times repeated

While Loop - The while loop is used to repeat a section of code an unknown number of times until a specific condition is met

Initialization - What sets the counter variable to a starting value. For example (var i = 0) represents an initial value of 0.

Condition - Allows the computer to know whether or not to keep repeating the loop.

increment/decrement - Modifies the counter variable after each repetition.

Indexing / List Index - The position of an element in a list, starting from 0

append, remove, pop - Various methods, append adds an element to the end, remove removes at an index, and pop removes the last item.

Elements [in a list] - An item in a list.

Nesting - Having one data type or function inside another data type or function, such as lists or loops.

Array - Another name for a list, depends on the language

Lists are a collection of data in a sequence that is an iterable
Each sequence is demarcated with an index, starting from 0. This is known as base 0 indexing
In memory, it is stored as a variable name with multiple pointers to each variable stored in a certain order
Lists can also be called arrays
Lists have methods that act upon the list and change them. This moves the pointers within RAM to change the parts of the list.
Lists methods Mutate, meaning they actively change the list, but they don't return anything. This means that return a None-type, which you cannot manipulate
