---
title: College Board 5.5 and 5.6
description: Discussion from 5.5 and 5.6
layout: post
comments: true
toc: true
categories: [week22, markdown]
---

## 5.5 Legal and Ethical Concerns

1. When you create a GitHub repository it requests a license type. Review the license types in relationship to this Tech Talk and make some notes in your personal blog.

- Open Source MIT license: using code freely and making and distributing closed source versions
- Open Source GPL license: anything you want with your project except distributing closed source versions

2. In your blog, summarize the discussions and personal analysis on Software Licenses/Options, Digital Rights, and other Legal and Ethical thoughts from this College Board topic.

Software Licenses help to protect the software to ensure that technology is under protection and will not be copyrighted by others. This keeps the software safe from being taken. Digital Rights can be used to protect, play, and/or distribute content. This can be used to prevent pyrating movies and music. Legal and ethical issues can include things like theft, phishing, and illegal file downloading.

3. Make a license for your personal (blog) and Team repositories for the CPT project. Be sure to have a license for both Team GitHub repositories (frontend/backend). Document license(s) you picked and why. FYI, frontend, since it is built on GitHub pages may come with a license and restrictions. Document in blog how team made license choice and process of update.

Personal blog: I chose to use the MIT one for my personal blog because I would like to have my blog be public. This allows for others to see and access my code.

Frontend and Backend: We chose to use the MIT license because it allows for our project to be public. We hope that people are able to use our website for their website and others can get help with their website through our website.

## 5.6 Safe Computing

1. Describe PII you have seen on project in CompSci Principles.

Public and private keys used in our APCSP class

2. What are your feelings about PII and your personal exposure?

PII are really good to helping enhance the project that you are working on. It is good to keep your information safe and private because that way it will ensure for safety.

3. Describe good and bad passwords? What is another step that is used to assist in authentication.

A good password is one that has a lot of symbols and is not something that someone could guess. A bad password could be just your name or a couple of number. Another step that is used to assist in authentication can include face id or even email.

4. Try to describe Symmetric and Asymmetric encryption.

Symmetric: key used for both encryption and decrytpion
Asymmetric: public and private key

5. Provide an example of encryption we used in AWS deployment.

An example of encrytion we used is port numbers

6. Describe a phishing scheme you have learned about the hard way. Describe some other phishing techniques.

Getting a text saying that you need to confirm an account and recieving a link. Clicking on the link and inputting your information when it is a scam. They end up taking all of your information
